\chapter{DYNAMIC WIDTHS OF ICE-I$_\mathrm{h}$ / WATER INTERFACES}\label{chap:Dyn}
In Chapter \ref{chap:Str}, ice-I$_\mathrm{h}$ / water interface was
characterized by structural order parameters, and estimates of the
interfacial width were obtained by determining the distance over which
these parameters transitioned from their bulk liquid values to those
for ice-like configurations. The local density and tetrahedral order
parameters were found to transition smoothly between the two regions,
and yield similar widths for a given facet.  Simulations and
experiments indicate that the dynamics of water molecules depend not
only on their local structure and environment, but also on the
ordering of molecules outside of their first solvation shell.\cite{}
Given this, we have investigated the dynamics of water molecules
across the interface as well.

\section{Diffusion Coefficients as a Measure of Interfacial Width}
As discussed in Chapter \ref{chap:intro}, transport coefficients
can be defined by relating a system's response to an external
perturbation. For example, the diffusion coefficient can be expressed
in terms of an applied particle flux and the resulting concentration
gradient; just as the shear viscosity can be expressed in terms of an
applied shear stress and the resulting velocity gradient. It is also
possible to obtain transport coefficients ($\gamma$) from an infinite
time integral of an equilibrium time correlation function of a related
flux ($\mathscr{A}$).
\begin{equation}\label{eq:transport1}
\gamma = \int_0^{\infty} dt \langle \dot{\mathscr{A}}(t)
\dot{\mathscr{A}}(0)\rangle 
\end{equation}
Albert Einstein was able to show that for any expression written in
this form, there is an associated expression,
\begin{equation}\label{eq:transport2}
2t\gamma = \langle (\mathscr{A}(t)-\mathscr{A}(0))^2 \rangle
\end{equation}
for large $t$ compared to the correlation time of $\mathscr{A}$. 

The diffusion coefficient $D$ is given by
\begin{equation}\label{eq:diffusion1}
D = \frac{1}{3} \int_0^{\infty} dt \langle \dot{\mathbf{r}_i}(t) -
\dot{\mathbf{r}_i}(0) \rangle
\end{equation}
where $\dot{\mathbf{r}_i}(t)$ is the center-of-mass velocity of molecule
$i$, and the factor of $\frac{1}{3}$ accounts for motion in three
dimensions. From Equation \eqref{eq:transport1} and Equation \eqref{eq:transport2},
the corresponding Einstein relation is
\begin{equation}\label{eq:diffusion2}
2Dt = \frac{1}{3} \langle | \mathbf{r}_i(t) - \mathbf{r}_i(0) |^2 \rangle
\end{equation}
where $\mathbf{r}_i(t)$ is the center-of-mass position of molecule
$i$. 

The spatially-resolved diffusion constant,
\begin{equation}\label{eq:diffusion3}
D(z) = \frac{1}{6t} \langle | \mathbf{r}_i(t) - \mathbf{r}_i(0) |^2
\delta(z_i(0) - z)  \rangle 
\end{equation}
provides local information about the translational motions avaiable to
the water molecules located within a computed $\delta z$, and the
angle brackets indicate an average over all the water molecules and
time origins available from the simulation. In the liquid, translation
primarily occurs on two separate time scales. At short times,
diffusion occurs within local solvation cages, while at longer times
these molecules vacate their local solvation shells and form new cage
confirmations. Comparatively, translation within the ice is
nonexistent. Therefore, we expect the corresponding diffusion
constants for these two regions to be vastly different. Observing the
spatial length over which this transition occurs provides us with a
dynamic width of the interface, and allows for comparison with the
structural widths obtained in Chapter \ref{chap:Str}.

For each of the ice-I$_\mathrm{h}$ / water interfaces described in
Chapter \ref{chap:Methods}, four one nanosecond simulations were
performed without the presence of an applied kinetic energy or
momentum flux (\textit{i.e.}, no thermal or velocity gradient was
present in the system). Configurations of the systems were stored
every 100 fs, and spatially resolved three-dimensional diffusion
coefficients were computed by slicing the systems into 1~\AA~bins
along the $z$-dimension (see Figure \ref{fig:DzSPCE} and Figure
\ref{fig:DzTIP4PIce}).

\begin{figure*}
\includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{Figures/DzSPCE}
\caption{\label{fig:DzSPCE} Upper: Mean-squared displacement (MSD)
  collected in 1 \AA~bins across the SPC/E basal ice-I$_\mathrm{h}$ /
  water interface. The band with no increase in the MSD are the water
  molecules in the ice, while the band that increases most quickly
  corresponds to bins in the liquid. Between these two bands are bins
  which span the interfacial liquid water, with a MSD which increases
  moderately in time. Lower: The spatially resolved three-dimensional
  diffusion coefficient, $D(z)$, can be obtained from fitting the MSD
  data by Equation \eqref{eq:diffusion3}. These are shown along with a fit
  that provies a ''diffusion'' width, $d_{10-90}^{D}$. The locations
  of the structural Gibbs dividing surfaces (using tetrahedrality) are
  indicated with vertical dashed blue lines, while the locations of
  the ''diffusion'' interfaces are shown in green.  }
\end{figure*}

\begin{figure*}
\includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{Figures/DzTIP4PIce}
\caption{\label{fig:DzTIP4PIce} The same basal diffusion coefficients
  as Figure \ref{fig:DzSPCE}, but collected using the TIP4P/Ice model
  and at 270 K. Note that the higher coexistence temperature for this
  model increases the observed diffusion coefficients, and has brought
  the structural and diffusion interfaces much closer together.}
\end{figure*}

In the top panel of Figure \ref{fig:DzSPCE} and Figure
\ref{fig:DzTIP4PIce}, the mean-squared displacement (MSD)
($\langle | \mathbf{r}_i(t) - \mathbf{r}_i(0) |^2 \rangle $) has been
computed across the basal ice-I$_\mathrm{h}$ / water interface. At
early times, the MSD rises parabolically due to the ballistic motion
of molecules; which arises from the unhindered motion of molecules
within their local solvation cages. At slightly longer times, the
molecules bounce off of their solvation cages, which can be seen in
the short decay in the MSD immediately following the ballistic
regeime. Diffusion coefficients are obtained from a regression of the
longer time portion of the MSDs using Equation \eqref{eq:diffusion3}, and
are shown in the lower panels of the same figures. Calculation of the
diffusion coefficients was performed assuming the water molecules
could translate in three dimensions, even though it may be more
appropriate to assume diffusion to occur in only two dimensions for
molecules close to the ice.

In the bulk liquid portions of the SPC/E system ( lower panel of
Figure \ref{fig:DzSPCE}), diffusion coefficients are found to be
$\sim$~0.75$\times 10^{-10}~\mathrm{m}^{2}~\mathrm{s}^{-1 }$, while in
the ice the transport coefficient is numerically zero. In comparison,
diffusion constants for the liquid region of the systems modeled with
the TIP4P/Ice forcefield were found to be
$\sim$~1.75$\times 10^{-10}~\mathrm{m}^{2}~\mathrm{s}^{-1 }$ (lower
panel of Figure \ref{fig:DzTIP4PIce}). The observed increase in the
reported values is attributed to the warmer temperature of the
liquid. We can determine the distance over which this transition
occurs by fitting the $D(z)$ profiles with a function designed to
smoothly transition from the liquid to the ice.

\begin{equation}\label{eq:Dfit}
  D(z) = \frac{1}{D_\mathrm{liquid}} - \frac{1}{2D_\mathrm{liquid}} \left(
      \tanh \left( \frac{z-l}{d^D} \right) - \tanh \left( \frac{z-r}{d^D} \right) \right)
\end{equation}
  
Here, $D_\mathrm{liquid}$ is the value of the diffusion coefficient in
the liquid, $l$ and $r$ are the Gibbs dividing surface of the left and
right interfaces (indicated with vertical green lines in Figure
\ref{Fig:DzSPCE} and Figure \ref{fig:DzTIP4PIce}), and $d^{D}$ is the
width of the interface. These values of interfacial width are related
to the structural $10\%-90\%$ interfacial widths reported in Chapter
\ref{chap:Str} by the same scaling coefficient,
($d_\mathrm{10-90}^{D} = 2.197~d^{D}$). All four SPC/E interfaces
exhibit dynamic widths of $\sim$~14~\AA~, which is significantly
larger than the widths predicted by structural measurements reported
in Table \ref{tab:strWidths}. Similarly, the TIP4P/Ice systems at
270~K exhibit dynamic widths of $\sim$12~\AA~, which are also larger
than the interfacial widths predicted by structural measures for the
same model. Suprisingly, the TIP4P/Ice model at 270~K predicts a
narrower interface than the SPC/E model at 225~K. This could indicate
that at the warmer temperature, the liquid molecules near the surface
recover the bulk-like dynamics over fewer molecular layers advancing
from the ice. However, the associated error with these measurements is
rather large and thus cannot be definitively established. The value of
the dynamic width of each interface is reported in Table
\ref{tab:dynWidths}.

It is interesting to note the spatial separations between the two
Gibbs dividing surfaces (tetrahedrality in blue, diffusion in green)
shown in the lower panels of Figure \ref{Fig:DzSPCE} and Figure
\ref{fig:DzTIP4PIce} are not equal. The SPC/E systems exhibit a wide
separation between these two interfaces, $\sim$~8 \AA~, while the
TIP4P/Ice model predicts a much narrower separation $\sim$~4
\AA~. Due to the dependence of molecular motion on the local
structure, it is not clear if these two interfaces should lie on top
of one another. However, this discrepency between the spatial
separations of the Gibbs dividing surfaces of structural and dynamic
measures appears robust, as will be seen in the following sections of
this chapter.

\begin{table}[h]
\centering
\caption{COMPUTED WIDTHS OF THE ICE-I$_\mathrm{h}$ / WATER INTERFACES BY
  DYNAMIC MEASURES. \label{tab:dynWidths}} 
\begin{tabular}{r|ccc|ccc}  
\hline
\hline
  \multirow{2}{*} & \multicolumn{3}{c|}{SPC/E (225~K)} &  \multicolumn{3}{c}{TIP4P/Ice (270~K) } \\
  & \multicolumn{3}{c|} {Interfacial Widths (\AA) \footnotemark[1]} &
                                                                      \multicolumn{3}{c} {Interfacial Widths  (\AA) \footnotemark[1]} \\
 Interface &  $d_\mathrm{10-90}^{D}$ & $d_\mathrm{10-90}^{C_2}$ &
                                                                  $d_\mathrm{10-90}^{jump}$  
                                                                 &
                     $d_\mathrm{10-90}^{D}$ & $d_\mathrm{10-90}^{C_2}$ & $d_\mathrm{10-90}^{jump}$\\ 
\hline
  Basal  $\{0001\}$                 & 14(4) & 11(2) & 12(2) & 13(2) & 15(3) & 11.1(8)  \\
  Prismatic  $\{10\bar{1}0\}$       & 15(3)  & 10(2) & 11(2) & 13(3) & 15(2) & 11(2)  \\
  14\degree~Pyramidal  $\{20\bar{2}1\}$   & 15(3) & 13(1) & 12(2) & 10(2) & 13(1) & 8.8(7)  \\
  Secondary Prism  $\{11\bar{2}0\}$ & 12(3) & 11(3) & 9(3) & 12(4) & 14(2) & 11(2)  \\ 
\hline
\hline
\end{tabular}
\flushleft
  \footnotemark[1]\footnotesize{Uncertainties in the last
   digit are indicated with parentheses.} \\
\end{table}

\section{Reorientation of Water Molecules}
The spatially-resolved orientational time correlation function,
\begin{equation}\label{C(t)1}
  C_{2}(z,t)=\langle P_{2}(\mathbf{u}_i(0)\cdot \mathbf{u}_i(t))
  \delta(z_i(0) - z) \rangle,
\end{equation}
provides local information about the decorrelation of molecular
orientations in time. Here, $P_{2}$ is the second-order Legendre
polynomial, and $\mathbf{u}_i$ is the molecular unit vector that
bisects the HOH angle of molecule $i$. Again, the angle brackets
indicate an average over all the water molecules and time origins, and
the delta function restricts the average to specific regions in the
$z$-dimension.

In the ice crystal, decay of $C_2(z,t)$ is incomplete, while in the
liquid, correlation times are typically measured in ps. Observing the
spatial transition between the decay regimes can define another
dynamic measure of the interfacial width. To determine dynamic widths
of the interfaces under shear, each of the systems were divided into
bins along the $z$ axis ($\approx$ 1 \AA\ wide) and $C_2(z,t)$ was
computed using only those molecules that were in the bin at the
initial time (see Figure \ref{fig:Czt}). For each ice-I$_\mathrm{h}$ /
water interface investigated, the following 0.5 ns simulations were
computed: quiescent simulations (where no thermal or momentum gradient
was present), simulations with only a thermal gradient present, and
simulations where both thermal and momentum gradients were
present. During these simulations, the positions and orientations of
each molecule were recorded every 100 fs.

\begin{figure*}
\includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{Figures/CztImage}
\caption{\label{fig:Czt}~$C_2(z,t)$ collected in 1 \AA~bins across the SPC/E
  secondary prism ice-I$_\mathrm{h}$ / water interface. The band that experiences very
  little decay represents water molecules in the ice, while the band
  that decays quickly corresponds to bins in the liquid.  The
  correlation function presents a continuous distribution of decay
  behaviors across the interface between ice and liquid water.}
\end{figure*}

Recently, Laage and Hynes have determined the mechanism for water
reorientation.\cite{Laage2006,Laage2008} Using molecular dynamics
simulations, they found that water reorients by breaking a hydrogen
bond with an overcoordinated first-shell neighbor, and makes a large
angle jump to form a new hydrogen bond with an undercoordinated
second-shell neighbor. The hydrogen bond cleavage and molecular
reorientation occur in a concerted fashion, not in successive steps as
was previously thought. With this detailed picture, they constructed
the Extended Jump Model\cite{Laage2006,Laage2008} based on the Ivanov
Jump Model and parameters extracted from their molecular simulations;
the average jump amplitude of the rotational jump, $\theta_{0}$, and
the frequency of the jumps, $1/\tau_{0}$. After accounting for
molecular frame reorientation, the Extended Jump Model is able to
predict reorientation relaxation times, $\tau_{n}^{jump}$, which agree
with experimental results as well as estimates obtained from
simulations where fast librational motion is ignored.

Computed $C_2(z,t)$ values have previously been fit to a
triexponential decay, with three time constants:
$\tau_\mathrm{short}$, measuring the librational motion of the water
molecules, $\tau_\mathrm{middle}$, measuring the timescale for the
large angle jumps during the breaking and making of hydrogen bonds,
and $\tau_\mathrm{long}$, corresponding to the translational motion of
the water molecules.\cite{Louden2013a} The Extended Jump Model also
includes three similar decay constants, however two of them are linked
and the dynamics of the decay is governed by two parameters. Since we
are interested in how the decay times and the individual contributions
may change through the interface, we have fit the $C_2(z,t)$ data
with
\begin{equation}
  C_{2}(z,t) = a~e^{-t/\tau_\mathrm{short}} + b~e^{-t/\tau_\mathrm{middle}} + 
  (1-a-b)~e^{-t/\tau_\mathrm{long}}
\label{eq:c2}
\end{equation}
where all of the decay constants are considered local functions of the
$z$ coordinate. In Figure \ref{fig:SPorient}, the $z$-coordinate
profiles for the three decay constants, $\tau_{\mathrm{short}}$,
$\tau_{\mathrm{middle}}$, and $\tau_{\mathrm{long}}$ for the SPC/E
secondary prism interface is shown, along with their fractional
components of the overall total decay, ($a$, $b$, $1-a-b$),
respectively. Similar figures for the other SPC/E interfaces are provided in
Appendix \ref{dynamicAppendix}.

In the liquid regions of all four interfaces, $\tau_\mathrm{middle}$
and $\tau_\mathrm{long}$ consistently approach $3-6$ ps and $30-40$
ps, respectively.  Both of these times increase closer to the local
tetrahedral order parameter interface.  Conversely,
$\tau_\mathrm{short}$ decreases from a liquid-state value of $72-76$
fs approaching the same interface.

The fractional contributions of the three motions to the overall decay
changes as we approach the interface as well. Far from the ice, the
librational motion and hydrogen bond breaking/making events each
contribute to about 20 percent of the total decay, whereas frame
reorientation contributes about 60 percent. As we approach the
interface, the librations and hydrogen bond dynamics both decrease in
contribution. The librations comprise approximately 15 percent of the
overall decay at the edge of the interface, whereas the hydrogen bond
contributions drop to approximately zero. In contrast, the fraction of
the total decay due to frame reorientation is shown to increase
approaching the interface.  The time constant corresponding to this
motion is seen to logarithmically increase as we approach the interface
as the molecules become more ice-like. In the ice we would expect
molecular reorientation to be incomplete, however, at the interface we
observe frame reorientation to contribute 85 percent of the overall
decay.


\begin{figure*}
\includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{Figures/Sec_lcorrz}
\caption{\label{fig:SPorient} Decay times (left) for $C_2(z,t)$ at the
  SPC/E secondary prism interface, and their fractional contributions to the
  overall decay (right) fit using Equation \eqref{eq:c2}. The local decay
  constants are plotted as a function of distance from the center of
  the ice slab. The vertical dashed line indicates the Gibbs dividing
  surface determined using the local tetrahedral order parameter.
  Results are shown for a quiescent system with no applied kinetic or
  momentum flux (black), an interface with an imposed
  kinetic energy flux (red), and a sheared simulation (blue) with both
  kinetic and momentum fluxes.}
\end{figure*}

The middle and long decay times diverge inside the ice crystal, so the
orientational rate, $k(z) = 1 / \tau(z)$ can be used to identify a
dynamic interfacial width for the interface by fitting the profiles of
the middle and long-time orientational rates with a function that goes
smoothly between bulk-like liquid behavior and the crystal,
\begin{equation}\label{tauFit}
  k(z) = \frac{1}{\tau_\mathrm{liquid}} - \frac{1}{2~\tau_\mathrm{liquid}} \left(
      \tanh \left( \frac{z-l}{d^{C_2}} \right) - \tanh \left( \frac{z-r}{d^{C_2}} \right) \right)
\end{equation}
where $l$ and $r$ are the locations of the Gibbs dividing surfaces,
and $d^{C_2}$ is a dynamic width.  As with the structural widths,
$10\%-90\%$ dynamic widths are easily computed from the fits
($d_\mathrm{10-90}^{C_2} = 2.197~d^{C_2}$), and are provided in Table
\ref{tab:dynWidths}. All four SPC/E interfaces exhibit dynamic widths
that are $\sim 11$~\AA, and are larger than the structural widths
computed above.  In TIP4P/Ice at 270K, the dynamic widths are
$\sim 14$~\AA, also larger than the structural widths in for these
interfaces.
 
\section{Spatial Resolution of Hydrogen Bond Jump Rates}
The spatially-resolved hydrogen bond jump correlation function,
\begin{equation}\label{jump}
C_\mathrm{jump}(z,t) = 1 - \langle n_a(0) n_b(t) \delta(z_i(0) - z) \rangle
\end{equation}
measures the decorrelation of a hydrogen bond on molecule $i$ as it
transitions between one acceptor ($a$) and another ($b$). $n_a(0)$ is
set to one if hydrogen $i$ is bound to acceptor $a$ at time $0$, and
is zero otherwise.  Absorbing boundaries are utilized with this
correlation function; switches from $b$ back to $a$ at a later time
are considered a new jump, and the angle brackets indicate an average
over all donor hydrogens and time origins. Laage and Hynes determined
the bulk version of this function had \textit{single}-exponential
decay in room temperature water.

A version of this correlation function was used to investigate how
water molecules reorient around
ions\cite{Laage2007,Laage2008a,Stirnemann2011a,Laage2011},
proteins\cite{Duboue-Dijon2014}, and in confined
spaces\cite{Laage2012b,Fogarty2014}.  Laage and Hynes studied how the
strength of the hydrogen bond might perturb the reorientation
dynamics,\cite{Laage2006a} and found the librational motion which
forms a cone around the O-O vector is smaller for more strongly
hydrogen bonded water. This may also provide a partial explanation for
the increasing contribution of short time orientational decay very
close to the ice surfaces.  Since the solid creates an excluded volume
for the water molecules that are in proximity to the interface, the
hindered range of motion (i.e., a smaller cone around the O-O vector)
manifests as faster librational decay.

As an additional measure of a dynamic width of the quiescent
interfaces, each of the systems were divided into bins along the $z$
axis ($\approx$ 1 \AA\ wide) and $C_\mathrm{jump}(z,t)$ was computed
(see Figure \ref{fig:SPkjmp} and Figure \ref{fig:SPTIP4Pkjmp}).
Like Laage and Hynes, we find that within each spatial region, the
decay is easily fit with a single exponential, yielding a local
hydrogen bond jump time. The jump times diverge inside the ice
crystal, so the jump rate, $k_\mathrm{jump}(z) = 1 / \tau_0(z)$ can be
used to identify a hydrogen bond jump width for the interface in a
similar manner to the dynamic width. $k_\mathrm{jump}(z)$ was fit with
a hyperbolic tangent (see Equation \eqref{tauFit}) and the $10\%-90\%$ jump
width, $d_\mathrm{10-90}^{jump}$, is reported in Table \ref{tab:dynWidths}.

\begin{figure*}
\includegraphics[width=5.5in]{Figures/secPrismJumpPlot}
\caption{\label{fig:SPkjmp} Upper: Hydrogen bond jump correlation
  functions, $C_\mathrm{jump}(z,t)$, collected in 1 \AA~bins across
  the SPC/E secondary prism ice-I$_\mathrm{h}$ / water interface. The band that
  experiences very little decay represents water molecules in the ice,
  while the band that decays quickly corresponds to bins in the
  liquid.  The correlation function presents a continuous distribution
  of decay behaviors across the interface between ice and liquid
  water.  Lower: $C_\mathrm{jump}(z,t)$ decays exponentially, and each
  1 \AA~spatial bin can be fit with a jump rate, $k_\mathrm{jump}(z)$.
  These are shown with a fit that provides a ``jump'' width,
  $d_\mathrm{10-90}^{jump}$. The locations of the structural Gibbs dividing
  surfaces (using tetrahedrality) are indicated with vertical dashed
  blue lines, while the locations of the ``jump'' interfaces are shown in
  orange.}
\end{figure*}


\begin{figure*}
\includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{Figures/secprismJumpPlotTIP4PIce}
\caption{\label{fig:SPTIP4Pkjmp} The same secondary prism hydrogen
  bond jump data as Figure \ref{fig:SPkjmp}, but collected using the
  TIP4P/Ice model and at 270~K.  Note that the higher coexistence
  temperature for this model increases the observed liquid-state jump
  rates, and has brought the structural and jump interfaces much
  closer together.}
\end{figure*}


\section{Discussion}
The primary results presented in this chapter are the characterization
of the dynamics of water molecules across ice-I$_\mathrm{h}$ / water
interfaces. This was accomplished by computing three separate order
parameters for small slabs perpindicular to the presented ice
surface. Quantifying the spatial transition between the bulk liquid
and bulk ice regimes gives a dynamic estimate of interfacial
width. These widths were found to be slightly larger than those based
on structural measures reported in Chapter \ref{chap:Struct}. However,
like the structurally determined interfaces the computed dynamic
widths were found to be invarient to shear rate and shear direction
relative to the surface features of the ice. 

Like Karim and Haymet\cite{Karim1987,Karim1988} and later Nada and
Furukawa\cite{Nada1995}, the three-dimension diffusion coefficient was
used to investigate quiescent ice-I$_\mathrm{h}$ / water
interfaces. Karim \textit{et al.} estimated the basal ice / water
interface to be three to four molecular diameters wide with the TIP4P
model at 240~K, or $\sim$10~-~15 \AA~. Similarly, Bryk and Haymet
explored the SPC/E basal and prismatic ice-I$_\mathrm{h}$ / water
interface. At 230~K, they observed diffusion coefficients across the
interface that agree well with ours reported in Figure
\ref{fig:DzSPCE}. In the ice, they computed $D$ to be $\sim$ 1
$\times 10^{-10} \mathrm{m}^{2} \mathrm{s}^{-1}$ and in the liquid
$D \sim 3.7 \times 10^{-10} \mathrm^{m}{2} \mathrm{s}^{-1}$.

 While it is still unclear if it is appropriate to assume
three-dimensional diffusion for liquid at the surface of ice, the
interfacial molecules are were able to exchange with those in the
lattice. That is, there were no restraints on the water molecules
comprising the ice lattice. This allowed for \textit{pseudo}
three-dimensional diffusion of liquid molecules at the interface.

Using the same water model, Nada \textit{et al.}  observed
differential behavior for the basal and prismatic ice / water
interfaces. They found diffusion coefficients to be much larger for
the liquid solvating the basal crystal face as compared to the
prismatic; suggesting that while the water at the basal interface has
hindered diffusion due to the supercooling of the liquid, the water at
the prismatic interface is hindered by the supercooling and an
addition effect driven by the crystal surface.

 
We note that Bryk and Haymet also calculated the orientational time
correlation function at the basal interface of SPC/E
water,\cite{Bryk2002} and observed the same qualitative trend through
the ice-I$_\mathrm{h}$ / water interface, although the spatial resolution was not
sufficient to resolve a dynamic width.


In this chapter, we have presented dynamic ice-I$_\mathrm{h}$ / water
interfacial widths as evaluated by three separate order parameters. In
all three cases, the dynamic order parameters predicts a much broader
interfacial width than either of the structural analyses described in
Chapter \ref{chap:Str}.  For SPC/E ice-I$_\mathrm{h}$ / water
interfaces, the self diffusion coefficient gives an estimate of about
13 \AA~, while the TIP4P/Ice interface is found to be slightly
narrower, at about  12 \AA~ wide. These
results agree well with other two order parameters investigated, the
orientational time correlation function, and the hydrogen bond jump
time. However, the width predicted by the TIP4P/Ice model
is slightly broader than compared to the SPC/E model as predicted by
the orientational time correlation function, as well as the jump times.
